NOW THERE'S ONE THING I WANT TO DO TO CONCLUDE THE STYLING part and there we'll use a relatively Borden
CSI as feature CSI as variables.
If you ever worked with SAS you'll quickly know what CSI as variables are just that they're built into
the core CSI as functionality and don't require development environment compiler as SAS does.
So what's the idea behind scenes as variables.
Well we have all our nice stylings in our tooltip here.
For example the background color when we have the important class on the host element.
Now sometimes you want to take advantage of the default styling your elements set up but you still want
to customize it a bit.
Let's say the background color here when we have that important flag should depend on a certain theme
we have in our application.
Now obviously what we always can do is we can go into the style definitions of our light Dom and we
could of course also say any tooltip.
So we use our tooltip selector with the important class receives a back round of green.
OK.
We can always do that and if we go back and reload we have that green color here.
Now this does work.
The problem with that just is we have to be totally aware of all the styles we set when the important
class is added.
If we didn't want to overwrite it as we do it here.
Now here we know that the only thing we do with important inside of our custom element is that we set
the background but we could be doing all kinds of things there and would be very inconvenient if we
as a developer had to drill into all the web components we're using to find out what they're doing when
we add a certain C as this class and we might know that they do something when we add a class in general
because we can find that in the documentation for the component let's say.
But we don't know all the styles this component is applying what we do know also because of the documentation
for a component let's say is that we can set primary color and that the component will then use that
primary color besides all of our styles it might be setting which we don't want to touch and that is
exactly where we see us as variables or CSA as properties can help us we can go to our light Dom and
instead of manually overwriting our style heater like this we can add a C as as variable typically you
do that inside of these special root selector which simply is like the root of your document.
Alternatively you could select H team Al here in the H team l document and in there you can add your
own custom variable with two dashes at the beginning and then any name you want something like color
dash primary and there let's give this a light blue maybe let's see.
Let's pick does one and now we just need to make sure that we use that as a component.
And in reality it probably is the other way around.
You are using a web component in your application and in the documentation of that web component you
find the information that this component is able to read the color primary see is as variable let's
say.
And therefore when you set it in your light on the tooltip can pick it up because in there we just happen
to use that.
So instead of hard coding the light gray here we can use that variable and we do this with the special
Wah function which CSX understands.
And there we now just you have to use the same name.
So dashed as color primary if we do that and we safeties we can go back and reload and we now see this
light blues style here as a background but now it is is fully customizable from inside the light Dom
without us being required to dig into the internals of our component and manually overwrite that.
Instead we can simply change the color into light Dom in this variable and it will be picked up by the
styling inside of our component due to the way we use this see as a variable.
And if you want to learn more about see as variables and see as s in general don't hesitate to take
my C S S to complete guide cause of course this is a really neat feature when you want to implement
something like theming or dynamic colors which you can set from outside you are not restricted to colors
by the way you can pass anything.
You could also have variables where you set some fun sizes or padding dimensions so pixels rams.
This is all possible and you can find an article with more information on C as as properties or variables
as I called them here.
Attached to this lecture by the way in case you want to dive deeper learn more about them and learn
more about the browser support for this feature and so on this now gives us full functionality though
and is an awesome way of enhancing our component.
There's just one other thing we can do here to make it even better.
In cases where a color primary is not set let's say I'm not setting it here I'm commenting it out in
the light on.
In such cases we of course have no background color because we're trying to apply this variable here
but this variable does not exist so we can't extract the value from it to handle such cases.
We can set up a default value in the place where we try to access the variable.
So in our custom component we simply add a comma after the variable name we're looking for and then
we provide a fallback value like this light.
Great.
And if we do that like this now over reload we have the light gray.
But if I were to override this in the light Dom by defining that variable the component is looking for.
If we do that then this of course gets picked up.
So now we have the highest amount of flexibility we could possibly have for this styling thing.